packages/docs/content/in-depth/03_state.en.md, before:

---
title: State
---

## State

Cerebral uses a single state tree to store all the state of your application. It is just a single object:

```js
{}
```

Thats it.

You can only store other objects, arrays, strings, booleans and numbers in it. Forcing you to think of your state in this simple form gives us benefits.

1. The state of the application is exposed as simple values. There are no classes or other abstractions hiding the state of your application

2. The state can be stored on the server, local storage and passed to the debugger. It is what we call **serializable** state

3. All the state of your application can be inspected through one object

When you create a new module in your application, for example...

```js
import {Controller} from 'cerebral'

const AppModule = {
  state: {
    foo: 'bar'
  }
}

const conroller = Controller({
  modules: {
    app: AppModule
  }
})
```

... Cerebral will put this into the single state tree as:

```js
{
  app: {
    foo: 'bar'
  }
}
```

You can now point to this state with a path: **"app.foo"**. To handle large amounts of state you simply namespace it by putting the state into a module.

And that is basically all there is to state in Cerebral. If you know how to use work with basic JavaScript types, you can work with state in Cerebral.

Commit message:

feat(Controller): add ability to handle binary like values

packages/docs/content/in-depth/03_state.en.md, after:

---
title: State
---

## State

Cerebral uses a single state tree to store all the state of your application. It is just a single object:

```js
{}
```

Thats it.

You will normally store other objects, arrays, strings, booleans and numbers in it. Forcing you to think of your state in this simple form gives us benefits.

1. The state of the application is exposed as simple values. There are no classes or other abstractions hiding the state of your application

2. The state can be stored on the server, local storage and passed to the debugger. It is what we call **serializable** state

3. All the state of your application can be inspected through one object

When you create a new module in your application, for example...

```js
import {Controller} from 'cerebral'

const AppModule = {
  state: {
    foo: 'bar'
  }
}

const conroller = Controller({
  modules: {
    app: AppModule
  }
})
```

... Cerebral will put this into the single state tree as:

```js
{
  app: {
    foo: 'bar'
  }
}
```

You can now point to this state with a path: **"app.foo"**. To handle large amounts of state you simply namespace it by putting the state into a module.

Using the plain value types of JavaScript gives Cerebral all its power. That said, there are times you need to store things like files or blobs. Cerebral supports this as well. The reason files are supported, but not **Date** for example, is because a date can be mutated directly. For example:

```js
const date = new Date()
date.setHours(8)
```

There is no way for Cerebral to keep track of this, and therefor is not supported. But do not worry about this. You can still use the Date object in your app, only that when you store it as state you use either a string or a number.

And that is basically all there is to state in Cerebral. If you know how to work with basic JavaScript types, you can work with state in Cerebral.
